docs/reference/content/driver-scala/builders/aggregation.md, before:

+++
date = "2015-03-19T14:27:51-04:00"
title = "Aggregation"
[menu.main]
  parent = "Scala Builders"
  identifier = "Scala Aggregation Builder"
  weight = 40
  pre = "<i class='fa'></i>"
+++

## Aggregation

The [`Aggregates`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Aggregates$" >}}) class provides static factory methods
that build [aggregation pipeline stages]({{< docsref "meta/aggregation-quick-reference/#stages" >}}).
Each method returns an instance of the 
[`Bson`]({{< relref "bson/documents.md#bson" >}}) type, which can in turn be passed to the `aggregate` method of `MongoCollection`.

For brevity, you may choose to import the methods of the `Aggregates` class statically:

```scala
import org.mongodb.scala.model.Aggregates._
```
  
All the examples below assume this static import.
  
### Match
  
The [`$match`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/match/" >}}) pipeline stage passes all documents matching the 
specified filter to the next stage.  Though the filter can be an instance of any class that implements `Bson`, it's convenient to 
combine with use of the [`Filters`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Filters$" >}}) class.  In the example below, it's assumed that the 
`equal` method of the `Filters` class has been statically imported.
  
This example creates a pipeline stage that matches all documents where the `author` field is equal to `"Dave"`:
 
```scala
`match`(equal("author", "Dave"))
```

{{% note %}}
As `match` is a reserved word in scala and has to be escaped by \` (backticks), the `filter` alias may be preferred:

```scala
filter(equal("author", "Dave"))
```
{{% /note %}}

### Project
  
The [`$project`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/project/" >}}) pipeline stage passes the projected fields of all 
documents to the next stage.  Though the projection can be an instance of any class that implements `Bson`, it's convenient to combine 
with use of the [`Projections`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Projections$" >}}) class.  In the example below, it's assumed that the 
`include`, `excludeId`, and `fields` methods of the `Projections` class have been statically imported. 
  
This example creates a pipeline stage that excludes the `_id` field but includes the `title` and `author` fields:
 
```scala
project(fields(include("title", "author"), excludeId()))
```

#### Projecting Computed Fields

The `$project` stage can project computed fields as well.

This example simply projects the `qty` field into a new field called `quantity`.  In other words, it renames the field:
 
```scala
project(computed("quantity", "$qty"))
```

### Sample
The [`$sample`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/sample/" >}}) pipeline stage randomly select N documents from its input.
This example creates a pipeline stage that randomly selects 5 documents from the collection:

```scala
sample(5)
```

### Sort
  
The [`$sort`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/sort/" >}}) pipeline stage passes all documents to the next stage, 
sorted by the specified sort criteria. Though the sort criteria can be an instance of any class that implements `Bson`, it's convenient to 
combine with use of the [`Sorts`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Sorts$" >}}) class.  In the example below, it's assumed that the 
`descending`, `ascending`, and `orderBy` methods of the `Sorts` class have been statically imported.
  
This example creates a pipeline stage that sorts in descending order according to the value of the `age` field and then in ascending order 
according to the value of the `posts` field:
 
```scala
sort(orderBy(descending("age"), ascending("posts")))
```

### Skip

The [`$skip`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/skip/" >}}) pipeline stage skips over the specified number of 
documents that pass into the stage and passes the remaining documents to the next stage.

This example skips the first `5` documents:

```scala
skip(5)
```

### Limit

The [`$limit`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/limit/" >}}) pipeline stage limits the number of documents passed
to the next stage.
  
This example limits the number of documents to `10`:

```scala
limit(10)
```

### Lookup

Starting in 3.2, MongoDB provides a new [`$lookup`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/lookup/" >}}) pipeline stage 
that performs a left outer join with another collection to filter in documents from the joined collection for processing.

This example performs a left outer join on the `fromCollection` collection, joining the `local` field to the `from` field and outputted in 
the `joinedOutput` field:

```scala
lookup("fromCollection", "local", "from", "joinedOutput")
```

### Group

The [`$group`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/group/" >}}) pipeline stage groups documents by some specified 
expression and outputs to the next stage a document for each distinct grouping.  A group consists of an `_id` which specifies the 
expression on which to group, and zero or more 
[accumulators]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/group/#accumulator-operator" >}}) which are evaluated for each 
grouping.  To simplify the expression of accumulators, the driver includes an 
[`Accumulators`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Accumulators$" >}}) singleton object with factory methods 
for each of the supported accumulators.
In the example below, it's assumed that the `sum` and `avg` methods of the `Accumulators` class have been statically imported.
 
This example groups documents by the value of the `customerId` field, and for each group accumulates the sum and average of the values of 
the `quantity` field into the `totalQuantity` and `averageQuantity` fields, respectively. 

```scala
group("$customerId", sum("totalQuantity", "$quantity"), avg("averageQuantity", "$quantity"))
```   

### Unwind

The [`$unwind`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/unwind/" >}}) pipeline stage deconstructs an array field from the 
input documents to output a document for each element.

This example outputs, for each document, a document for each element in the `sizes` array:

```scala
unwind("$sizes")
```

Available with MongoDB 3.2, this example also includes any documents that have missing or `null` values for the `$sizes` field or where 
the `$sizes` list is empty:

```scala
unwind("$sizes", UnwindOptions().preserveNullAndEmptyArrays(true))
```

Available with MongoDB 3.2, this example unwinds the `sizes` array and also outputs the array index into the `$position` field:

```scala
unwind("$sizes", UnwindOptions().includeArrayIndex("$position"))
```

### Out

The [`$out`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/out/" >}}) pipeline stage outputs all documents to the specified 
collection.  It must be the last stage in any aggregate pipeline:

This example writes the pipeline to the `authors` collection:
     
```scala
out("authors")
```

### SetWindowFields

The [`$setWindowFields`](https://dochub.mongodb.org/core/window-functions-set-window-fields) pipeline stage
allows using window operators. This stage partitions the input documents similarly to the [`$group`](#group) pipeline stage,
optionally sorts them, computes fields in the documents by computing window functions over windows specified per function
(a window is a subset of a partition), and outputs the documents. The important difference from the `$group` pipeline stage is that
documents belonging to the same partition or window are not folded into a single document.

The driver includes the [`WindowedComputations`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/WindowedComputations$" >}})
singleton object with factory methods for supported window operators.

This example computes the accumulated rainfall and the average temperature over the past month per each locality
from more fine-grained measurements presented via the `rainfall` and `temperature` fields:

```scala
val pastMonth: Window = Windows.timeRange(-1, Windows.Bound.CURRENT, MongoTimeUnit.MONTH)
setWindowFields("$localityId", Sorts.ascending("measurementDateTime"),
  WindowedComputations.sum("monthlyRainfall", "$rainfall", pastMonth),
  WindowedComputations.avg("monthlyAvgTemp", "$temperature", pastMonth))
```

### Creating a Pipeline

The above pipeline operators are typically combined into a list and passed to the `aggregate` method of a `MongoCollection`.  For instance:

```scala
collection.aggregate(List(filter(equal("author", "Dave")),
                                 group("$customerId", sum("totalQuantity", "$quantity"), 
                                                      avg("averageQuantity", "$quantity")),
                                 out("authors")))
```

Commit message:

Do improvements, including those proposed by reviewers
- Add missing `MongoTimeUnit.QUARTER`.
- Allow specifying no windowed computations.
- Move @mongodb.server.release annotations to the class level.
- Add a note to the documentation stating that support for `$setWindowFields` is in beta.

JAVA-3866

docs/reference/content/driver-scala/builders/aggregation.md, after:

+++
date = "2015-03-19T14:27:51-04:00"
title = "Aggregation"
[menu.main]
  parent = "Scala Builders"
  identifier = "Scala Aggregation Builder"
  weight = 40
  pre = "<i class='fa'></i>"
+++

## Aggregation

The [`Aggregates`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Aggregates$" >}}) class provides static factory methods
that build [aggregation pipeline stages]({{< docsref "meta/aggregation-quick-reference/#stages" >}}).
Each method returns an instance of the 
[`Bson`]({{< relref "bson/documents.md#bson" >}}) type, which can in turn be passed to the `aggregate` method of `MongoCollection`.

For brevity, you may choose to import the methods of the `Aggregates` class statically:

```scala
import org.mongodb.scala.model.Aggregates._
```
  
All the examples below assume this static import.
  
### Match
  
The [`$match`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/match/" >}}) pipeline stage passes all documents matching the 
specified filter to the next stage.  Though the filter can be an instance of any class that implements `Bson`, it's convenient to 
combine with use of the [`Filters`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Filters$" >}}) class.  In the example below, it's assumed that the 
`equal` method of the `Filters` class has been statically imported.
  
This example creates a pipeline stage that matches all documents where the `author` field is equal to `"Dave"`:
 
```scala
`match`(equal("author", "Dave"))
```

{{% note %}}
As `match` is a reserved word in scala and has to be escaped by \` (backticks), the `filter` alias may be preferred:

```scala
filter(equal("author", "Dave"))
```
{{% /note %}}

### Project
  
The [`$project`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/project/" >}}) pipeline stage passes the projected fields of all 
documents to the next stage.  Though the projection can be an instance of any class that implements `Bson`, it's convenient to combine 
with use of the [`Projections`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Projections$" >}}) class.  In the example below, it's assumed that the 
`include`, `excludeId`, and `fields` methods of the `Projections` class have been statically imported. 
  
This example creates a pipeline stage that excludes the `_id` field but includes the `title` and `author` fields:
 
```scala
project(fields(include("title", "author"), excludeId()))
```

#### Projecting Computed Fields

The `$project` stage can project computed fields as well.

This example simply projects the `qty` field into a new field called `quantity`.  In other words, it renames the field:
 
```scala
project(computed("quantity", "$qty"))
```

### Sample
The [`$sample`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/sample/" >}}) pipeline stage randomly select N documents from its input.
This example creates a pipeline stage that randomly selects 5 documents from the collection:

```scala
sample(5)
```

### Sort
  
The [`$sort`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/sort/" >}}) pipeline stage passes all documents to the next stage, 
sorted by the specified sort criteria. Though the sort criteria can be an instance of any class that implements `Bson`, it's convenient to 
combine with use of the [`Sorts`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Sorts$" >}}) class.  In the example below, it's assumed that the 
`descending`, `ascending`, and `orderBy` methods of the `Sorts` class have been statically imported.
  
This example creates a pipeline stage that sorts in descending order according to the value of the `age` field and then in ascending order 
according to the value of the `posts` field:
 
```scala
sort(orderBy(descending("age"), ascending("posts")))
```

### Skip

The [`$skip`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/skip/" >}}) pipeline stage skips over the specified number of 
documents that pass into the stage and passes the remaining documents to the next stage.

This example skips the first `5` documents:

```scala
skip(5)
```

### Limit

The [`$limit`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/limit/" >}}) pipeline stage limits the number of documents passed
to the next stage.
  
This example limits the number of documents to `10`:

```scala
limit(10)
```

### Lookup

Starting in 3.2, MongoDB provides a new [`$lookup`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/lookup/" >}}) pipeline stage 
that performs a left outer join with another collection to filter in documents from the joined collection for processing.

This example performs a left outer join on the `fromCollection` collection, joining the `local` field to the `from` field and outputted in 
the `joinedOutput` field:

```scala
lookup("fromCollection", "local", "from", "joinedOutput")
```

### Group

The [`$group`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/group/" >}}) pipeline stage groups documents by some specified 
expression and outputs to the next stage a document for each distinct grouping.  A group consists of an `_id` which specifies the 
expression on which to group, and zero or more 
[accumulators]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/group/#accumulator-operator" >}}) which are evaluated for each 
grouping.  To simplify the expression of accumulators, the driver includes an 
[`Accumulators`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/Accumulators$" >}}) singleton object with factory methods 
for each of the supported accumulators.
In the example below, it's assumed that the `sum` and `avg` methods of the `Accumulators` class have been statically imported.
 
This example groups documents by the value of the `customerId` field, and for each group accumulates the sum and average of the values of 
the `quantity` field into the `totalQuantity` and `averageQuantity` fields, respectively. 

```scala
group("$customerId", sum("totalQuantity", "$quantity"), avg("averageQuantity", "$quantity"))
```   

### Unwind

The [`$unwind`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/unwind/" >}}) pipeline stage deconstructs an array field from the 
input documents to output a document for each element.

This example outputs, for each document, a document for each element in the `sizes` array:

```scala
unwind("$sizes")
```

Available with MongoDB 3.2, this example also includes any documents that have missing or `null` values for the `$sizes` field or where 
the `$sizes` list is empty:

```scala
unwind("$sizes", UnwindOptions().preserveNullAndEmptyArrays(true))
```

Available with MongoDB 3.2, this example unwinds the `sizes` array and also outputs the array index into the `$position` field:

```scala
unwind("$sizes", UnwindOptions().includeArrayIndex("$position"))
```

### Out

The [`$out`]({{< docsref "reference/operator/aggregation/out/" >}}) pipeline stage outputs all documents to the specified 
collection.  It must be the last stage in any aggregate pipeline:

This example writes the pipeline to the `authors` collection:
     
```scala
out("authors")
```

### SetWindowFields

{{% note class="important" %}}
Support for `$setWindowFields` is in beta. Backwards-breaking changes may be made before the final release.
{{% /note %}}

The [`$setWindowFields`](https://dochub.mongodb.org/core/window-functions-set-window-fields) pipeline stage
allows using window operators. This stage partitions the input documents similarly to the [`$group`](#group) pipeline stage,
optionally sorts them, computes fields in the documents by computing window functions over windows specified per function
(a window is a subset of a partition), and outputs the documents. The important difference from the `$group` pipeline stage is that
documents belonging to the same partition or window are not folded into a single document.

The driver includes the [`WindowedComputations`]({{< apiref "mongo-scala-driver" "org/mongodb/scala/model/WindowedComputations$" >}})
singleton object with factory methods for supported window operators.

This example computes the accumulated rainfall and the average temperature over the past month per each locality
from more fine-grained measurements presented via the `rainfall` and `temperature` fields:

```scala
val pastMonth: Window = Windows.timeRange(-1, Windows.Bound.CURRENT, MongoTimeUnit.MONTH)
setWindowFields("$localityId", Sorts.ascending("measurementDateTime"),
  WindowedComputations.sum("monthlyRainfall", "$rainfall", pastMonth),
  WindowedComputations.avg("monthlyAvgTemp", "$temperature", pastMonth))
```

### Creating a Pipeline

The above pipeline operators are typically combined into a list and passed to the `aggregate` method of a `MongoCollection`.  For instance:

```scala
collection.aggregate(List(filter(equal("author", "Dave")),
                                 group("$customerId", sum("totalQuantity", "$quantity"), 
                                                      avg("averageQuantity", "$quantity")),
                                 out("authors")))
```
